[docs] New ML pipeline guide PR (#13100)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/guides/dagster/ml-pipeline.mdx

---
title: Building machine learning pipelines with Dagster | Dagster Docs
description: This guide illustrates how to use Dagster to operationalize your machine learning pipeline
---

# Building machine learning pipelines with Dagster

In this guide, we’ll walk you through how to take your machine learning models and deploy and maintain them in production using Dagster, reliably and efficiently.

We will work through building a machine learning pipeline, including using assets for different elements, how to automate model training, and monitoring your model's drift.

---

## Benefits of building machine learning pipelines in Dagster

- Dagster makes iterating on machine learning models and testing easy, and it is designed to use during the development process.
- Dagster has a lightweight execution model means you can access the benefits of an orchestrator, like re-executing from the middle of a pipeline and parallelizing steps while you're experimenting.
- Dagster models data assets, not just tasks, so it understands the upstream and downstream data dependencies.
- Dagster is a one-stop shop for both the data transformations and the models that depend on the data transformations.

> <Note>

Author: put in a note or just text?

> <Note>

Author: @erinkcochran87  Updated it - i think that looks good, thanks for the feedback

The first step is taking the dataframe and splitting it into a [training and test set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Training,\_validation,\_and_test_data_sets). In some of your models, you also might choose to have an additional split for a validation set. The reason we split the data is so that we can have a test and/or a validation dataset that is independent of the training set. We can then use that dataset to see how well our model did.

```python file=/guides/dagster/ml_pipelines/ml_pipeline.py startafter=test_train_split_start endbefore=test_train_split_end
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from dagster import multi_asset, AssetOut

@multi_asset(outs={"training_data": AssetOut(), "test_data": AssetOut()})
def training_test_data(hackernews_stories):
    hackernews_stories = hackernews_stories
    X = hackernews_stories.title
    y = hackernews_stories.descendants
    # Split the dataset to reserve 20% of records as the test set
    X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2)
    return (X_train, y_train), (X_test, y_test)
```

> Next, we will take both the training and test data subsets and [tokenize the titles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexical_analysis) e.g. take the words and turn them into columns with the frequency of terms for each records to create [features](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_\(machine_learning\)) for the data. To do this, we will be using the training set to fit the tokenizer, in this case we are using [TfidfVectorizer](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.feature_extraction.text.TfidfVectorizer.html) and then transforming both the training and test set based with that tokenizer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will take both the training and test data subsets and [tokenize the titles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexical_analysis) e.g. take the words and turn them into columns with the frequency of terms for each record to create [features](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_\(machine_learning\)) for the data. To do this, we will be using the training set to fit the tokenizer. In this case, we are using [TfidfVectorizer](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.feature_extraction.text.TfidfVectorizer.html) and then transforming both the training and test set based on that tokenizer.
```

A few small grammar fixes
